To exemplify this, I'm going to work with
my telephone and in this case I'm going to be working with chat.
GPT. I've used other generative AI applications, but I found this one to
be the most superior. The others work, but not as well as this. And I'm using
the free version. And when using the free version, as you can see, there's this
icon here that looks like a headphone, and that's when you click and you ensure
that your keyboard is in the language that you're going to speak, in which in this case is going to
be English. If I was going to be swedish, then I have the swedish keyboard.
So this is an example of how it's going to go. I'm going to
ask then the generative AI application to help me with
a mail, which I would like to send to my professors because I
have a very unpleasant doctoral student colleague in my group who behaves quite
aggressively in seminars. So just follow the process. We'll just do a
few minutes so you get the hang of it.
You will be helping me to write a male, which is very conflict based
because of a situation that I have at work. I shall be speaking to you
and I'd like you to ask me questions one at a time so that you clearly
understand the situation before you actually construct the mail. Please
acknowledge that you've understood my instructions before we continue.
I understand your instructions. I'll ask questions one at a time to fully grasp the
situation before helping you write the email. Let's get started. Could you tell me more about the
conflict you're dealing with at work? So I'm a doctoral student, and
every second week we have doctoral seminars, and there is an individual among
the doctoral students who's extremely aggressive and unpleasant. When
we have these seminars, it creates a very negative and unpleasant environment. And
the professors, the people who are managing the seminar, they.
They. In a way, they don't encourage it, but they allow it, and that's not good. It creates a very
negative working environment.
I understand. It sounds like the aggressive behavior is affecting not only the
environment, but also your experience at these seminars. To help me understand
better, can you tell me how this person's behavior specifically manifests during the
seminars? In a seminar, of course, you want
your group to ask you challenging
questions, but in this particular case, he sometimes asks
questions in a really kind of aggressive tone, but more so
when I've been speaking, he makes hand signals, like he does this with his hand to
show that he thinks it smells like bullshit. For example, and it's very off
putting. And he deems what he does to be
linguistics and what we do to be not linguistics, and he can't support
us in our own arguments or challenges with relation to what we're doing. It's always
through his viewpoint about what linguistics is and what it isn't.
It sounds like his behavior is not only disrespectful, but also dismissive of
your field of work, which adds to the frustration. How have the professors responded to this
so far? Have they acknowledged the behavior at all, or do they seem to ignore it
entirely? My impression is that they
ignore it. I think they're not used to having this kind of character, and
they simply don't know what to do. But they are the people who are managing
the seminars. It's their responsibility to make sure that it's a positive
environment for everybody involved.
I see. So it feels like there's a lack of intervention from the professors,
and that's adding to the problem. Do you intend to address this issue directly with the
professors, or are you thinking of including the student in the conversation as
well? I'd like to send a mail to this doctoral
student as well as the professors, and I would like to cc it to the dean of the
faculty and also to my union representative, because I'd
like to see an improvement on the situation that we have here.
Got it. Since this is a sensitive issue, how would you prefer to frame the tone
of the email? Do you want it to be direct and firm, or more
diplomatic and focused on resolving the issue collaboratively? Perhaps
a combination of both. I'd like you to be diplomatic, but I would like it to be firm, and I would
like it to be written in a tone that shows how serious
I find this problem to be and that it's not to be just combed over. Do you have a particular
outcome in mind? For example, would you like a change in how the seminars are conducted? An
apology or some other resolution? I'd like for
the preferences to. I'd like for the professors. You're very welcome. Let me know whenever
you're ready to continue, and I'll be here to assist you.
I haven't finished. I would like the professors to
address the situation in the next seminar so it's not veiled over.
I'd like it to be openly talked about. Nobody needs to apologize. But I'd like them to
ensure that it's expected that there will be a positive tone by that
student, but by, in fact, everybody.
That makes sense. You want a clear, open discussion to improve the seminar
environment without focusing on personal apologies, but ensuring a more
respectful tone from everyone. Are there any specific details or examples you'd like to include in
the email to highlight the behavior and its impact, or would you prefer to keep it more
general? Let's keep it more general. And you can
now go ahead and create a draft of the mail, which I will then
tweak.
Here's a draft of the email based on what we've discussed
addressing conduct in doctoral seminars. So then you got to see an example of how you can
have a conversation with a genai application.
Now there is a bit of a lag depending upon your Internet connection. Sometimes, as you
saw, it broke off and I had to not restart it, but I had to
continue it again. This will get faster, it will get
more human like. There's something with chat GPT called advanced voice
mode, which I believe a lot of users are going to get quite soon,
and so it will become more human like. And remember, this is only at the time of making
this video. It's less than two years after chat GPT-3 was
launched. So in a very short space of time, quite a lot has happened. I
use this technique a lot to help me with my process,
my thinking process. So it's not, my focus is not necessarily on the
end product, but being able to put my thoughts
into, articulate them, and they end up in words. Then when I get the
document, I will then tweak it, change it. Maybe it's done 75% of the
work for me. I still have to own it and work with it and change it
before I'm ready to send it off. Now what would be great is if you were to try this out in
some capacity, either a problem or just a discussion. You might be
want to plan a wedding, or you might want to create a video script,
ask for a discussion and help, and then ask for a summation of what's been
written, see how you find it. Good luck with that.